We are going to talk about
your organization's first Macs.
With me today will be Ian Kelly,
Senior Systems Engineer,
and we're also going to have
a short demo on some things,
but I want to ask a
couple questions first.
First off, how many people have
never been to WWDC before?
This is your first time.
Excellent.
You're in the right place.
Secondly, how many of you have never
administered Macs before?
Good, you're in the right place.
Welcome.
When we get started,
we have some people that
we want to talk to today.
We want to talk about the Mac user
in a Windows-dominated environment.
We want to talk about
the Mac support staff,
the island of Mac people.
And we want to speak to you,
the Windows IT administrator who's
now been handed the Mac support.
What are you going to learn?
You're going to learn strategies for
gaining acceptance and offering support
for the Macs within your organization.
We're going to talk
about migration planning.
We're going to talk about
building acceptance for the
Macs within your organization.
And we're going to see with a couple of
case studies how others have done this.
What we're not going to learn,
this is not a full and
complete deployment session.
It's not a detailed integration session.
That's not what it's about.
It's not an imaging session.
However, there are other sessions this
week that I urge you to go to.
You'll see them on the
slides a little bit later on.
For example,
the Directory Services Troubleshooting
session later on this week.
Excellent session and I urge
you to go to that as well.
We're not gonna talk about patch
management and this isn't a quick
and dirty shortcut way to do this.
We wanna give you real solid
strategies for supporting your Macs.
So let's look at the Mac people.
Who are they?
Well, I'm one of them.
You have a new Mac user.
It's an executive, maybe a superior.
They don't really have
a technology background,
but they have a Mac.
They may not speak all the Mac stuff yet.
They may not call it a doc.
They may not really understand it,
but they've got it.
The value is placed on the integration.
And if you're the IT administrator,
they don't care about your feelings.
They write your check.
Make my Mac work.
What they'll use?
Mail, Safari, maybe iWork, maybe iLife,
probably Microsoft Office,
and they may have a Mac at home.
And as we're going to see
a little bit later on,
if they have a Mac at home,
they're probably a local administrator.
and chances are in your
Windows environment,
you don't allow your Windows people
to run as local administrators.
Not a good idea.
So there's a little bit of
re-education that has to go on here.
We'll talk about that.
The other set of Mac people
are the Mac Island,
right?
It's a small group,
maybe a graphic design group.
They're self-managed,
they're isolated from the
corporate IT strategy.
They just, they don't get any
love from corporate IT.
and the Mac IT staff.
Maybe one person, right?
Not supported by IT.
They're forced into the back.
At this time I'd like
to bring up Ian Kelly.
and Ian's going to talk about
the Windows side of things.
Ian?
Thanks.
So how many people here before
we start are actually current or
former Windows administrators?
Okay, good.
So as Schoun said,
I'm a systems engineer with Apple Canada.
I cover the whole of Ontario up there.
And in a previous life,
I was a Microsoft guy.
I spent my entire life doing NT to 2000,
2003 migrations, exchange migrations,
probably more migrations than
I can actually care to remember.
And now I'm a system engineer at Apple.
So it's a transition that can be made
and can be made very successfully.
So what's the profile that we're looking
at for the Windows administrator?
Typically,
you're looking at someone who is
probably overworked and probably
spends most of their time doing
maintenance and or recovery rather than
looking at ways to push the boundary,
look at new technologies and look at
ways of making the working environment
for users better and more efficient.
A lot of time will be spent
with things like making sure
that antivirus is up to date,
pushing out hot fixes and a lot of these
will be happening out of hours typically.
So you'll be doing your nine to five
stuff and then working evenings and
weekends to do stuff on the servers when
you can actually have some downtime.
and then there's Vista.
So what's the typical environment that
the Windows IT admin is working in?
We're looking at, obviously, nowadays,
a large,
complex Active Directory environment
where things like group policies
are pushed down to users,
the desktop is managed,
and applications that can or can't
be launched and printers are set up
and all that kind of stuff as well.
There are some probably very
extensive security policies and
guidelines about what you can
do and can't do on the Internet,
what you can do with email and
what you can't do with email.
And typically,
you don't have much of a life.
And certainly, for my part,
towards the end of my
career as a Microsoft guy,
there was a lot of Mac envy,
seeing the way that things could
be done and seeing that maybe the
grass was greener somewhere else.
So what are the kind of questions that
IT management ask or obstacles they might
raise and put in your path when you're
looking at this kind of transition?
Well, firstly,
it's always kind of a financial
human resources thing.
Well,
we can't afford to hire any more staff
and you can't find these Mac guys.
Where do you find a Mac guy
and how do they train them?
There's no training for this.
It's kind of a dark art thing.
And certainly we can't afford to
double our resources and have a whole
bunch of Windows guys and a whole
bunch of Mac guys at the same time.
So what are the important things to know?
Well, as I said earlier,
the skills are transferable.
I spent seven or eight years as
a Windows sysadmin and I made
that transition to understanding
how the Mac works pretty easily.
I mean,
the skills that you're understanding,
the foundations, things like networking,
are all completely the same on the Mac.
So once the foundations are solid,
the transition is quite easy.
I know a number of great Mac sysadmins
who used to be Windows sysadmins.
Especially anyone that's
managing Unix right now,
and particularly Solaris,
they make fantastic Mac guys.
And I have a customer
of mine back in Toronto.
He has been using Solaris
for about 20 years.
And I spent a day with him to show him
just the little intricacies of how the
Mac is slightly different to Solaris.
And he's never bothered me
with another question since.
To highlight this,
I'm going to talk a little
bit about a company based in
Toronto called Core Feature Animation.
They're an animation company and about
two years ago they did an animated
movie with Disney called The Wild.
And they had a decision from the
start that all of the 3D animation
was going to happen on Linux machines,
but everything else was going to be Mac.
And it was the same kind of deal
that Schoun spoke about earlier
that basically the head of the
company was a Mac guy and he loved
Apple products and said we're going to
be using them wherever it makes sense.
So they had around,
it was a two to one ratio.
They had 400 Linux machines for all
of their 3D and everything else,
all of the Final Cut editing,
all of the shape compositing and
all of the systems administration.
By that I mean like the production
scheduling and all that kind
of stuff was handled on Macs.
And their headcount was basically
one senior full-time admin for
the Macs with a half-time junior
and five senior Linux assistants.
So they had around,
it was a two to one ratio.
They had 400 Linux machines for all
of their 3D and everything else,
all of the Final Cut editing,
all of the shape compositing and
all of the systems administration.
admins and six full-time juniors.
So really we're looking at a
ratio of 2:1 on the machines
with a ratio of around 11:1,
or 11:1.5 on the actual
overhead for managing them.
Talk about strategies.
Now we're going to delve into some
kind of finer-grain strategies,
and I'm going to hand back to Schoun
to talk about the first of those.
Thank you, Ian.
All right, so the strategy that we have,
we have five reality distortion
fields that are sometimes
considered pain points.
They're not really,
and that's what we want to do.
We want to dispel these myths.
We want to give you strategies and
offer you support techniques for this.
First off, we have networking.
Integration, Management,
Deployment and Security.
Okay,
so let's talk about networking first.
The myth, our network is fine.
We run dynamic DNS,
file transfers are fast,
we don't have any problem.
Besides, the Macs need AppleTalk,
I still hear this.
Today, the Macs need AppleTalk,
it's chatty.
We use Cisco's VPN.
What's Bonjour?
How does that fit within my organization?
Can I control it?
I don't understand it.
And maybe the Macs don't
really network all that well.
So let's talk about DNS.
Dynamic DNS, it's great, it's okay,
works well.
How many people run Dynamic DNS in
their organizations now?
Okay, how many people run Static DNS?
Okay, you're probably a little happier.
It's harder to manage,
takes a little more skill, but
Overall, it's a little bit better.
With a Mac, straight out of the box,
DHCP is fine.
You want to have DNS in order,
especially if you're going to
be running Mac OS X server.
For example, if you're going to be
using static addresses,
you'll need pointer records,
you'll need the reverse records.
Dynamic DNS may not always set these up,
you may have to go in
and put them in there.
File sizes.
A while ago, a few years ago,
I went to a large company in Islip,
New York.
They had a NOC,
Network Operations Center,
about the size of a
football field underground.
It really,
Star Trek-like Network Operations Center.
They had a graphic department,
they had a design department.
And what happened was that the department
was complaining file transfers were slow.
And they had, at that time,
a state-of-the-art server
sitting down on the NOC.
Everything was great.
But they had one switch for
the graphics department.
So you had about 24,
25 Macs that were all
being piped through there.
All we did was ask them to look
at the average file transfer size.
The Macs were 250,
300 megabyte Photoshop files,
these really large files that were
being transferred back and forth daily.
And the IT staff just didn't have any
idea because all the other files and
everything else were relatively small.
And just like most organizations,
those PowerPoint presentations
were attached as email.
There was no limit.
Hey,
let's send a 15 megabyte attachment to
the person in the cubicle next door.
Why?
Because we can.
So,
When we showed them
that the Macs generally,
if they're in a design department,
they use larger files.
They all had a direct
line down to the server.
Problem solved.
It's also an excellent strategy
for putting it on XServe.
AppleTalk.
Macs can do AppleTalk for discovery.
It's been deprecated, yes.
They can't talk AppleTalk specifically,
but they can do it for discovery.
And here's a little screenshot
showing that you can actually
check it and turn it on.
And then we have the
Apple filing protocol,
which runs over port 548, all right?
Windows servers,
they just use AFP 2 old and busted.
It's just services for Macintosh.
Doesn't work anymore with the new Macs.
You're gonna have problems with it.
It's AFP 3.new hotness, right?
So there are a couple things
that we can do if you wanna
do file transfers this way.
First off, you can turn to SMB.
Mac OS X servers can be an SMB server.
Macs can connect to SMBs.
You can, if you need to,
you can transfer your files over SMB.
It's not a problem.
There's no client access licenses.
You may have some file name excitement,
right?
If you've had Mac users that have
been using Macs since the 1800s,
chances are they probably put forward
slashes for dates in the file names.
We know that Windows can't do that.
So sometimes you have to
retrain the Mac users,
don't do this anymore if
you're going to be transferring
these up to Windows machines,
here are the illegal characters you
can't use and so on and so forth.
Also, there's a product called
ExtremeZIP from GroupLogic.
It runs AFP on a Windows server.
They do file and print services,
they do clustered services.
So if you can't get a Mac OS X server
in your environment and you can't run
file services in your environment,
you can purchase ExtremeZIP and you
can run AFP on your Windows box.
And this is an excellent
solution in certain cases
where the IT staff just said,
"Okay, fine,
we'll put Mac OS X clients in here,
but we are not going to put
a Mac OS X server in here.
We're just not going to do it."
With respect to overall
networking on Mac OS X,
networking is handled in the GUI,
the Network Preference Pane.
There is a command line
tool called Network Setup.
You can script it just like you can
do any other command line tool and
you can do everything from setting up
a new interface to changing DNS and
search domains and everything else.
As you'll learn later on this week,
especially if you do a little
digging and you learn about launch D,
you can actually set up a launch
D item to watch for certain changes.
For example,
let's say you have a launch D item
that watches for maybe a DNS failure.
If it sees that a
DNS server has gone down,
it can trigger a shell script that
runs network setup to actually redirect
it to a second DNS or a third DNS.
If a user goes home and it
detects a different IP range,
you can have it actually do automatic
network changes for the user.
Network setup is an excellent
command line tool and I urge
you to take a look at it.
We also have a plethora of
troubleshooting utilities from network
utility to ping to NS lookup to dig and
all the rest of the command line stuff.
Really, really good tool.
Macs do run wireless, 802.11b,
802.x and Leap and TTLS and
all the really good,
neat stuff that we need for security.
And Macs run VPN.
So I want to tell you another story
about another company in California.
They ran a proprietary VPN service
and they paid client access
licenses for all their clients.
And life was okay,
but they still had to pay this.
They looked at
Mac OS X server's VPN server.
It can work with Windows users
authenticating against the VPN server,
but there's no client access licenses.
And in Leopard,
you can do VPN load balancing.
So I can have six VPN servers
and I have 5,000 users.
They're not all going
to slam the same server.
It'll do round robin load balancing.
I can also purchase RSA or CryptoCard.
They're both supported by
Mac OS X right in the GUI.
So if I need token-based authentication.
This company basically changed over
from using a third-party client
access licensed VPN server to using
a Mac OS X server as a VPN server.
and there are no client access licenses.
They realize their savings immediately.
Bonjour.
Bonjour is based on zero-conf.
It does four things.
Apple has it doing three of them.
First,
automatic discovery of local resources.
I have a printer, I have something else,
I plug it in, boom, it shows up.
Automatic Address Assignment.
I get a 169.254 if I don't
automatically get an IP address.
All Macs have 169.254
in their routing table,
even if they have an IP address.
In other words,
I can have two Macs on the same subnet.
One of the Macs could
have a 172.16 address.
Another Mac could have a
24-dot something IP address,
totally not in the same subnet,
on the same network,
and they can transfer files.
Why?
Because the 169.254 route
is in the routing table.
It's hard coded in there.
This is a tremendous advantage.
Secondly, automatic name resolution.
So in other words, we can put a name in,
just like Microsoft wins and NetBias.
So we can do automatic name resolution.
Behind the scenes,
all the networking is handled by configd,
that's the daemon that handles
all the networking in Mac OS X.
You can have multiple active
interfaces by default.
I can have wireless active,
I can have Ethernet
active at the same time,
can have two DHCP addresses
at the same time,
but I can have one static
and one DHCP address.
And the interfaces can be reprioritized
without you losing connectivity.
For example,
if you have a VPN interface and you
want all your traffic to go over VPN,
you can simply drag that
interface up to the top.
It'll remain inactive as
soon as you connect to VPN.
It'll move itself to the top
and all the traffic will be
pushed over the VPN connection.
So what's the strategy with networking?
We want to showcase the Macs
networking extensibility.
It is extremely extensible,
extremely powerful, and very,
very efficient.
We want to provide solutions
instead of workarounds.
And if you're talking
to the network IT staff,
you want to be extremely
concise about your topics.
So if you're a Mac person,
if you're the Mac island,
these are some excellent strategies for
you to get your Macs onto the network.
If you're the Windows IT administrator,
You may need extreme ZIP.
If you're not going to let a
Mac OS X server do AFP on your site,
look at extreme ZIP as a solution.
If you're running SMB and
you don't have any problem,
there's no real changes that you need.
You don't really need
to change your network.
You do need to look at
file transfer speeds.
And
It may force you to clean up your DNS,
which is a good thing.
At this time,
I'd like to bring Ian Kelly back
up to speak about integration.
Five years at Apple and I'm
still talking about Windows.
Yeah.
Okay, so there's a lot of myths out
there around how Macs work with
Active Directory in a large environment.
And there's also a lot of issues around
Macs connecting to Exchange servers.
And we're going to talk a lot about that.
We've got a demo as well in
this section to show you.
So typically when we go in and
we speak to large enterprises,
they're like, well,
we're running Active Directory and
we're always going to be
running Active Directory and
that's not going to change.
And typically one of the
first things they say is,
and we're not changing
Active Directory just to accommodate
these 20 Macs down in that building.
That ain't gonna happen.
And then we begin to talk to
them and show how the Macs can
integrate with Active Directory.
And the Macs have integrated
with Active Directory since
the days of Panther and 10.3.
And even before that,
they could integrate
with Active Directory,
but there was no actual specific
Active Directory plugin.
So what does the
Active Directory plugin do?
Well,
it sits inside an application called
Directory Access or Directory Utility,
depending on whether you're
running Tiger or Leopard.
And there's a command line
version of that GUI application
as well called dsconfig-ad,
which allows you to script everything
that you can do in the GUI and actually
push that out to multiple Macs at
once so they can all be configured
to bind into Active Directory.
Let's take a look at the plugin
first in a little more detail.
What we've got here is the first
screen that you will see and
basically you put in the domain
that you want to connect into.
It figures out what the forest is
automatically from DNS and then you
specify the actual computer record
that you're going to use to bind into
Active Directory with and that gets
created in the computer's container.
We can specify a number of different
options here at this screen as well.
So working out what the home
directory path is gonna be,
if you're gonna be using SMB to do that,
and things like the user shell,
if you're gonna allow users terminal
access and things like that.
On to the next thing,
we can do specific mappings
of Active Directory attributes
into the Macs as well because we
may not have those attributes.
And so you can either do static
maps here and there's also a
place for dynamic maps as well.
On the administration side,
we can specifically state which
domain we want to bind into,
which servers we want to use.
And we can also specify which
Active Directory groups we want
to allow to be admins on the Mac.
So if you have a specific
Active Directory group that does
desktop support or desktop management,
you can add those
Active Directory groups in here.
And automatically when that user logs in,
a part of that group,
they will have full admin
access on that local Mac.
There's also a checkbox in there
to allow authentication to any
domain within the forest as well.
So if you've got trust between domains,
you can take advantage
of that as well there.
What we're doing here is specifying
a username with a password obviously
that has privileges to create computer
records in the Active Directory.
And you can create a specific account for
that or a specific group of users that
are allowed to create computer accounts
and use any of those records here.
Two little check boxes to allow
you to specify the settings
you're about to be used to be
automatically put into the Mac.
So for things like authentication,
it'll automatically search
the Active Directory that
you've just bound into.
And it'll also use that for
contacts as well so that when you're
doing lookups in address book,
it'll automatically pull
from Active Directory.
So what does that look
like on the command line?
Well, it's dsconfig-ad and we're
using exactly the same example
as you saw in the GUI here.
So we're specifying the
account is going to be Macbook,
the username is winadmin,
it's going into the computer's
container in the Mac's OU for
the domain virusland.org.
Under Leopard,
we introduced some specific new options
in DS Config AD that was specifically
tied around some changes that
Microsoft made in Windows Server 2003
around the way that security is handled.
Beforehand in Windows 2000 Server,
these were not specified
security policies.
In 2003, they became enabled by default.
And so we can now do packet
signing and packet encryption.
These are both enabled by default,
so really you only need to go in and
worry about these if you're going
to disable them or specify they have
to be required as part of the bind.
We can also specify the namespace
that we want to connect into.
So if you have multiple domains within
a single forest and you have the same
username in two different domains,
then we can specify which actual
forest and domain we're connecting
to with this user record so we
actually log in as the right user.
and there's also password intervals.
So if you wanna cycle
the machine accounts,
which Windows does with
Windows machines by default,
you can also specify this,
synchronize the number of days on the
cycle so that they're all tied up.
Basically what I'm trying to say here is,
is there's no reason why the Macs binding
into Active Directory should be treated
any differently to the Windows machines
binding into Active Directory.
If you need anything more,
right now there's one
other option for you.
So if you're using
extensively DFS SharePoints,
right now if you want to
take advantage of those,
you'll need to use a product called
AdmitMac from Thursby Software,
and they handle connection
to DFS SharePoints as well.
While we're on the whole
directory services thing,
binding into any other directory system,
if it's any open LDAP derivative,
there'll be no problem.
And things like e-directory
work just fine too.
Talk a little bit about Kerberos.
Still to this day,
I've been into Windows environments
and spoken to Windows system
administrators who say,
"We don't run Kerberos.
We have Active Directory."
Sorry to point it out to you,
but all of the cool features that
you get with Windows machines when
you bind to Active Directory and you
can log into any SharePoint without
supplying another username and password,
that's Kerberos.
So the Macs now under
Leopard run Kerberos,
they run Kerberos on the client
machines and obviously on
Mac OS X server we run Kerberos as well.
So open directory is Kerberos,
it's open LDAP and
it's a password server.
Basically exactly the
same as Active Directory.
So the Macs can work well
with any kind of Kerberos.
MIT Kerberos is obviously the default
that we're using and Active Directory,
Open Directory Kerberos
works just fine as well.
So anywhere where you
want single sign-on,
you want a user to be able to log
in and then access SharePoints on
servers across the network without
supplying another username and password.
Once you've bound in with
the Active Directory plugin,
it creates the Kerberos records
for you and single sign-on
is handled from there on.
Talk a little bit about Exchange Server.
A lot of Exchange sysadmins
work on the assumption that
everyone connects via MAPI.
Well, MAPI is Microsoft's messaging
application programming interface and is
specifically designed for connection into
Exchange Server from Microsoft Outlook.
And as long as your Windows environment
is solely a Windows environment,
it works really well.
Hard to argue with that.
But as soon as you start looking at
clients on other platforms wanting
to connect to those Exchange Servers,
the whole MAPI thing falls down
because it's not available for any
other platform other than Windows.
Even Microsoft's Exchange client,
if you like,
as part of Microsoft Office on the Mac,
doesn't use Mappy.
It's not available on the Mac.
So Microsoft Entourage uses WebDAV, LDAP,
SMTP, IMAP,
all the standard open protocols.
Having said that,
Exchange 2007 now does not
ship with MAPI included.
It's a free download if you want
to add that MAPI functionality
back into Exchange server,
but it looks like Microsoft are
beginning to move away from MAPI as well.
On the Exchange support side of things,
outside of Microsoft Entourage right now,
we don't have a lot,
but as Bertrand mentioned yesterday,
Snow Leopard does have support
for Exchange connection,
and I'd like to invite
Brendan Langoulant up to talk to
you a little bit about that now.
Good morning.
Switch to the demo machine.
I'm the engineering manager,
I'm responsible for
Exchange on the desktop.
Today I'm going to show you a little
bit of a demo of what actually is on
the seed CD plus a little bit more.
The way that typical users will get
to exchange in environments is either
to use entourage or to use our.
There we go.
So what you see here is a
representation of what's on the
Exchange server as we speak.
So what we've now got is,
if I show you Address Book,
this is a typical default setup.
There's nothing in Address Book yet,
so it's quite empty.
The same goes for iCal.
And then what we've got is
a way to set up an account.
So again,
I'm launching mail at saying you need
to set up before you can do anything.
And you'll notice much like we
have for Gmail and other things,
we have profiles.
And so this profile is for that
particular Exchange server.
We support Exchange Server 2007.
And you'll notice that we actually
automatically will set up both
Address Book and iCal for you.
So now we've connected
to the Exchange server.
The Exchange server is running
at Apple at the moment.
And we've downloaded the same mail.
So if I show you, there's the mail.
They're my contacts.
There's my mail.
If I cycle through these.
[Transcript missing]
Likewise, for Address Book,
you can now see that the Address
Book's been fully populated with
all of my Exchange contacts,
making it a lot easier to actually
migrate into an Exchange environment.
We can do global address list lookups.
And it will return results
as you would expect.
And then I guess finally,
if I show you iCal.
And so again, iCal,
it's fully integrated.
We've now got an Exchange account
which it's reading using EWS,
which is not to be confused with Hour.
It's a different web service.
And again,
all the things you would expect
of typical iCal integration.
So I can move an event.
I'm clearly not going to make
that 8 o'clock meeting today.
If I go back to calendaring,
and you can see the event's been updated.
So hopefully,
we're really going to make a lot
of people's lives a lot easier.
We think that we're going to make
IT admin's lives a lot easier.
And we're really going to make a lot of
users that are inside Exchange-dominated
environments a lot easier.
So thank you.
That was pretty cool.
I hadn't seen it until then,
so first time for me too.
Just to round off this slide,
obviously we announced back in
February the whole iPhone SDK program
and obviously the licensing of ActiveSync
allows us to do much the same kind
of cool stuff that Brendan just shown,
but using ActiveSync onto the
phone to get pushed email,
calendars and contacts from an
exchange server down to the iPhone.
As a Canadian,
I'd like to say that finally we now have,
well, in four weeks we'll have
the phone in Canada too.
Not that I've been able to
use any of this cool stuff,
but now we will be able to.
The other cool thing about this
is obviously remote wipe as well.
If the phone is stolen,
the admin sat back in the office can
remotely wipe all of the sensitive
company information off that phone.
One last thing to talk about on the
side of Windows and integrating with
Windows is maybe the need to still run
Windows once you've moved to the Mac.
And there may be typically
a single application,
a custom application that was
written that doesn't work on the Mac.
The resources aren't there
to port it to the Mac yet.
So what do we do?
Well, there are really three options,
one of which may or may not work.
So the first would be Boot Camp,
obviously, included with Leopard.
And if an environment requires
maybe a significant amount
of time spent in Windows,
that Boot Camp would be an option.
Obviously, you'd have to boot in between
different OSs to switch back and forth,
which if you're flitting between
different applications might
not be a workable solution.
On the virtualization side of things,
there are two main solutions out there.
There's Parallels Desktop from Parallels.
I don't know how long went into
the naming of that product.
And Fusion from VMware.
And both of these
products allow you to run.
a Windows operating system
virtualized under OS X.
and they both do it in a really nice
way so that it's pretty much seamless.
You don't have to see the start
bar and the pretty rolling fields
and blue sky desktop backgrounds.
You can basically have the applications
fully integrated with the Mac desktop.
So they appear in the doc.
They appear in the recently
used applications list.
And so really all you see
is that Windows application.
You don't need any of the
other background to it.
Another option might be to use
a product called Crossover.
And what Crossover allows
you to do is just run a
Windows application inside OS X.
It doesn't work for all applications.
It doesn't work for Microsoft Outlook,
for example.
But if there's one application,
you just need to run that
XE file to do something.
Crossover may be a solution so you're not
running a whole virtualized OS as well.
So our strategy here is really
to show how well the Macs
integrate with Active Directory,
talk about the Active Directory plugin
and the functionality
that gives you to tie in.
Look at the options and after yesterday,
we got a whole bunch more options on
ways of connecting to Exchange Server.
and then where our options are
around virtualizing Windows if
there's those lingering applications
that can't be rewritten or don't
have an equivalent on the Mac.
So really there are not many
changes required in terms of
integrating with Active Directory.
You're already going to have
accounts that have the rights that
the Active Directory plugin needs.
Everything can be scripted so
you don't need to go around
and touch every single machine.
You can just create it once and
push it out to every machine.
Kerberos is built in,
single sign-on will work and you've
got options for virtualizing.
With that,
I'd like to hand back to Schoun.
He's going to talk a little bit about how
Macs might be managed in the environment.
Thank you, Ian.
All right.
So let's talk about
management for a moment.
The myth is the Macs can't be managed.
It's anarchy.
Everybody has to be an administrator.
We have no group policies in place.
Updates are somewhat hard to
manage and users download updates
before testing them and oh no.
So,
First off, with administrators.
Mac users don't have to run
as local administrators,
right?
If you do,
you can create neutered administrators
in a couple different ways.
One of the easiest is to edit the
Etsy sudoers file and take out the
admin group and only put in the users
that you want to run the sudo command.
So in that case,
they really can't get in there
to run any commands as super user
because you've edited the file.
You can further edit the Etsy
authorization file to change rights and
rules so that only certain users have
access to certain security policies.
A third option that you can do
is actually put a second data
store inside the local machine.
If you do that,
you can actually have administrators
who don't show up in the system
preferences who may have a home folder
hidden somewhere inside private.
And that's a really good way to have a
hidden admin in there that's not really
part of the original local directory
data store or any connected data store
like Active Directory or Open Directory.
Second, group policies.
The Macs can be managed.
Apple calls them managed preferences.
Windows users call them group policies.
It doesn't matter.
It's account-based.
We can do group policies based on user.
We can do group policies based on group.
We can do group policies
based on computers.
Or we can do group policies
based on computer group.
And we can be extremely granular in
the policy management that we do.
And there are some excellent sessions.
Again, we're going to show them
to you at the end of today,
but there are some excellent
sessions this week that
I really urge you to go to,
especially centered
around policy management.
We also have integrated management.
In other words,
we can have a Mac OS X server and we
can have an Active Directory server.
And this is also known
maybe as the magic triangle.
And basically what happens is
that we have a Mac OS X server,
we bind it to Active Directory,
we create a group,
we take all the users from
Active Directory and we nest them
inside of the Open Directory group.
We then do group policy management
on the Open Directory group,
but we don't touch the
Active Directory users.
The Active Directory schema
has not been modified.
We haven't had to make any changes.
We just have a Mac OS X server
in the middle doing all of
our policy management for us.
So how do we update the Mac?
Well, we probably don't want to let
users update their own machines.
Windows administrators certainly
don't do this with Windows.
They have a centralized server
that they use for updating.
And we want to thoroughly
test these updates beforehand.
And how do we track what updates
have actually been applied?
Well, there are a variety of ways that
we can push out software updates.
Apple has a software update service
that we're going to be talking
about in just a couple slides.
We can use Apple Remote Desktop to
actually push out packages.
And there are a plethora
of third-party tools,
Casper, LandRev, FileWave, Puppet,
RadMine.
Some of these are open source tools,
some of these are pay-for tools,
and this by no means is the only list.
There are others.
So here's a screenshot of Apple's
software update service and if
you take a look at the screenshot,
this is a Mac OS X server.
It was connected to the internet.
It went out to the internet and
it downloaded every conceivable
possible software update known to
man over the past X number of days.
It stores them on the server.
Then all we do is tell our managed
Macs when they run software
update to look at our server.
This is great for education where you
may have a fractional T1 line or a
small connection to the internet and
Apple releases an update on iLife or
iWork and you have 200 Macs all going
out to get the exact same update.
Why not put a
Mac West End server in the mix,
have it hosted and have all
that file traffic done locally,
not saturating your internet line?
Oh, and by the way,
there's no client access fees for this.
You just buy the server and hook it up.
Again, the scenario,
if we visualize the scenario,
we have the cloud,
we have Apple's bank of
software update servers,
and we have our lone
Apple software update server.
It connects, goes out to the internet,
and all of our Macs then receive
the updates from our lone server.
So what's the strategy
here with management?
Use proper acronyms and synonyms.
If you're trying to correlate
group policies and very granular
group policies on Windows,
know the names on the Mac side.
Don't get lost there.
Second, create a matrix of supported
management options.
In other words,
when users open up Safari,
I don't want them to be able to do
this and this and this and this.
When users open up System Preferences,
I don't want them to be able to click
on the Network Preference pane at all.
I just don't want them to
be able to click on it.
OK, well, do you want that user-based?
Do you want that computer-based?
Do you want that based on a group?
How do you want to manage that?
So create a nice matrix.
Decide which management
settings that you want.
Apple uses MCX,
Machine Control XML language,
to store these policies.
And acceptance for the Macs in the
environment often hinges on control.
There is the myth that the
Macs can't be controlled,
that they run wild.
And that's not true.
They can be managed with a
high level of granularity.
Support.
Set those policies.
policies.
Second, make sure your users don't
run as administrators.
I know you don't do this
in the Windows world.
and third, the Mac OS X software updates
can be handled easily.
Again, no client access licenses.
Buy Mac OS X server, get a next serve,
connect it up to the internet,
start it on a Friday night,
it'll go out to Apple's server,
suck down all 500 gigabytes of updates,
not that much,
but it'll pull them down and then
you can decide which ones you want
to enable and the users just get
them when they run software update.
So I'm going to move on to
deployment because management and
deployment sort of go hand in hand.
The myth for deployment?
I must install stuff locally.
I must walk around with my
Microsoft DVD and install
Office on all these machines.
There's no ghost for Mac.
Semantic doesn't have ghost for the Mac,
right?
And so when the Macs come in,
sometimes the administrators
look like Tweek from South Park.
"Ah!
A Mac!" So there's no ghost.
What am I going to do?
There's little understanding
of imaging in Mac OS X.
And maybe the Windows administrators
know FireWire.
So let's talk about image creation.
We tie the images to various
hardware configurations for our Macs.
Maybe we have one for portables,
maybe we have one for desktops,
maybe if Apple releases a new
version with some specific hardware,
we want to take a look at that one.
And we test and test and retest.
We launch all apps.
Not that you would ever do this,
but a great testing scenario
to your colleague at work.
There's a command line tool
that Apple has called Open.
So if you open up the command
line and you SSH into a
computer that you're testing,
and you type CDE space
forward slash application,
so you CDE in the applications folder,
and then type open space star dot star
and you watch the doc on that computer.
You'll get every app inside the
applications folder and inside
the utilities folder all just
bouncing and going on at once.
Number one, it's kind of fun to watch.
Number two,
it really puts a load on the system.
That image that you created,
you put an incredible
load on that system.
Now while it's fun to do,
you can still look at the
logs a little bit later.
You can look for certain
applications that may have crashed,
take a look at the response time,
at the CPU cycles.
It's a fun little command line tool,
but it's really worthwhile when you're
testing and you're working on images.
Second, once we have our images created,
how do we deploy them?
Again, there's no ghost.
It's okay.
I have a school district,
bought 4,000 Macs, one-to-one initiative,
some laptops, some desktops.
They all came with Leopard.
They spent two weeks testing the image,
working on the image,
They push it out to all the machines.
There's no client access license.
There's no license fee to push it out.
The Macs already came with Leopard.
They have legal license to
use that copy of Leopard.
All they're doing is re-imaging
it and pushing it out.
And it's free.
How can we push it out?
We can use Netboot, Netinstall,
Netrestore.
Netboot allows us to
boot Macs over a network.
Netinstall allows us to
actually install over a network.
And Netrestore is a block file transfer.
There are third-party
tools that I can use.
We'll also talk about
packages here in a minute.
The other thing that I want to focus
on is something called multicast ASR.
I have a Mac OS X server and it's set
up on a private network and I have 200
Macs and they all need the same image.
I can have that Netboot
server sitting there,
all the Macs boot up
off a tiny little image,
and then I could have a 10
gigabyte image being pushed out,
not over multicast, or not over unicast,
but multicast.
I can decide which method I want to use,
so I can be incredibly efficient.
and if I use Multicast,
that means all the machines
don't have to be started at once,
they just start getting the bits.
If they missed them,
they get retransmitted over and over.
We could also use a third-party
tool called Deploy Studio.
We could use an open
source tool called Puppet.
RadMine does this.
RadMine also will do rollback,
so if I have a problem with something,
I can go back to a previous version.
These are open source free tools.
There's no client access licenses.
Now what about packages?
Apple changed the way packages
work in 10.5 and it's really,
really cool.
For example,
I could have Apple Remote Desktop in
my organization and I need to install
a security update for all the Macs.
Maybe I don't have a
software update service,
maybe I only want to install
them on certain machines to test.
I can download that one package from
Apple and I can use ARD to send it out.
Or I can set up a task server
to do it over the weekend.
Even better, if I don't wanna do that,
if I have a Mac OS X server,
I can set up net install and
I can tell all the users,
tomorrow morning when you come in,
after you hear the chime,
just hold down the N key, the letter N,
just hold it down and
go get a cup of coffee.
It's not going to do a net install,
but it will actually deploy
the package that I created.
And if necessary,
reboot the system automatically.
There's no fees for this.
You bought the server.
So net install is a great
way to deploy packages.
And if you're a shell scripter
and you have scripts that you need
to do cleanup or something else,
you can have what are called
payload-free packages.
These are packages that don't
really have an item to deploy,
but they run scripts for you.
That's not too hard for
me to go tell users,
hold down the N key.
You got five minutes,
go get a cup of coffee.
And we can use SSH to also do this.
So what's our strategy?
Mac deployment is unbelievably
extremely efficient.
The support involves the
creation of the image,
the testing of the image,
the deployment of the image,
and as we saw in the previous section,
the management of the image.
So you're a Windows IT admin,
how do you support it?
You automate your image deployment.
You pick one of the tools
that we talked about.
Play with it.
Try it out.
There are other tools out
there that you can use.
Do your remote update planning carefully.
Are you going to use
ARD with a task server?
Are you going to use net
install with packages?
We can build our own packages too.
For example, I have an iMac and I've
installed Microsoft Office on it.
And I moved a few things around
and that's how I want it to
look for all the computers.
But I already created my image.
I took two weeks to create my image.
Now am I going to have
to create another image?
No.
Because before I installed
Microsoft Office,
I ran Package Maker,
Apple's free package creation tool,
and it took a snapshot.
of my hard drive.
And then I installed
Microsoft Office and I did a few things.
and it took another snapshot and
it created a package based on
the differences and it collected
all the files that had changed.
And then I can push that out.
It's an excellent way
to be able to do this.
At this time, I'm going to turn it
over to Ian Kelly again,
and we're going to talk about the
last reality distortion field,
and that is security.
Oh, and this is a big one.
So, yeah, there's a, as Schoun said,
there's this overwhelming thing that
Macs just kind of like run wild.
I was actually speaking to Josh earlier
and him and Joel go out and it used to
be the cockroach thing that the Macs
were kind of there lurking in the corners
of the building and if anyone came
over from IT and turned the lights on,
they'd go scurrying away into the corner.
But now they're kind of staying there in
the light and staring right back at you.
So, a lot of places are beginning to ask,
well,
we're getting hit with viruses all the
time and what do we do about the Macs?
There's no antivirus for them.
How do we control them?
What do we do?
So we're going to look at what the
antivirus options are for the Mac.
What about malware, spyware, Trojans,
those kinds of things?
And then what about actually unauthorized
access to the Mac and theft and actually
securing the machines themselves?
So first of all, I want to ask anyone,
have they ever received any kind of
compensation from their antivirus
vendor for downtime or lost productivity
as a result of viruses that they're
supposed to be protecting against?
Hands up.
So while there are very,
very few viruses for the Mac right now,
there have been a couple that
are like proof of concept.
There really are none in the wild.
And Macs aren't affected
by Windows viruses.
They will quite happily
pass that virus along.
So if it's attached to, say,
a Word document or an Excel document in
an email and the Mac gets that email,
it's not aware there's a virus in there,
it'll pass it on.
That doesn't look good on the
company having sent a virus out,
even though the Mac wasn't
even aware maybe that there
was a virus in that message.
So it's important to look at
antivirus options for the Mac and
realize that while the risk is low,
it's important as just being a good
net citizen that you should be running
antivirus solutions on the Mac.
How do they work into the workflow?
For example,
I work a lot with the broadcast
industry in Toronto and video editing
is not somewhere where you're ever
going to use antivirus because trying
to do real-time Final Cut Pro work
while having an antivirus chew away
on the files as you're accessing them,
it's not going to work.
So there's a lot of things to be taking
into account as to where the Macs work,
what kind of environment they're
working in and whether antivirus is
actually appropriate in those cases.
In a lot of cases,
it's more appropriate to deploy antivirus
at the file server and the mail server
and realize that you've got that barrier
between those Macs that don't have it,
for example.
So what are options out there for
antivirus that work in exactly the same
way as they do in the Windows world?
Well, the first two are Windows primary
antivirus solutions.
I'm a Sophos user myself and
primarily because I'm a Brit and
they were founded in the UK.
But both Sophos and Symantec have
cross-platform antivirus solutions.
So you can manage the Macs
from a central location,
push out your antivirus updates and your
definition files to all Macs at once
on a schedule and have it automatically
update the same as you can with Symantec.
And so there's really no reason why the
Macs should be treated any differently
from an antivirus point of view.
It's the way your
Windows machines are treated.
One interesting thing
to talk about is ClamAV,
which is an open source
antivirus solution.
It's included on Mac OS X server as part
of the antivirus for the mail server.
And so it works really well for
checking and going and outgoing email,
but it can be very easily adapted to scan
the file system for file viruses as well.
And so that's something that a lot
of people might want to look at as a
free solution is to deploy ClamAV as
their antivirus on a Mac OS X server,
for example.
What about data theft?
Well, FileVault was built into every Mac,
which is encryption
on the home directory.
So that's one thing.
The entire contents of the
home directory is encrypted.
So the desktop documents,
every file the user creates and
all of their preferences as well.
We can also do things like
encrypted disk images.
So Disk Utility can create a disk image
that you can dump files and folders into,
and that can be encrypted
at 256-bit AES encryption.
And then for things like data transfers,
as Schoun touched on earlier,
we've got the VPN built in.
And obviously SSL,
part of the Unix foundation of OS X,
is included on every machine.
So for things like SSL connections
across networks or across the internet,
you can use that as well.
There are also some full disk
encryption options out there
right now that are coming,
seem to be kind of coming to
market or very close to market.
And so there are options there for
those highly secure environments
where you want the entire contents
of the hard drive encrypted.
Let's talk a little bit
about the keychain as well.
So the keychain is really a central
location for all of your passwords,
and you can specify what passwords
get stored there and what don't.
And that's things like just
connections to a file server.
You can use it to store usernames
and passwords on websites.
You can create secure notes
inside the keychain as well.
So if there's specific
information you just store in
there that you want kept secure,
but you keep referring to
it over and over again,
you just need it reminded,
you can use that in there.
You have multiple keychains.
You can push out keychains.
the store of your
certificate information.
and I think they're kind of underused as
well because they can be used a lot more
effectively for things like pushing out
VPN certificates and stuff like that.
So our strategy here is really
to understand that the antivirus
options for the Mac are really not
a whole world of different from
those for the Windows machines.
We have things like FileVault
and encrypted disk images
to keep things secure.
And basically,
the world of security isn't too
different as to how it is on the PC.
The Macs are built on a
much more secure foundation.
And things like spyware and
malware are a lot harder to come
by just because of the basis.
If you're not running as an admin,
a user isn't going to be able to
install anything without supplying
a user-level username and password.
The first time you launch an application,
you're going to get a warning
saying you downloaded this
from this website on this date.
Are you sure you want to open it?
It's a Microsoft Office document
from somewhere.ru that's 26K.
Are you really sure you think
this is Microsoft Office?
I don't think so.
So there's a lot more security
built into the OS to prevent things
like your Trojans and spyware.
Let's talk a little bit about migration,
but really the focus here is going to
be the case study that I'm talking about
next because it illustrates the points
in the next slide a lot better than
me talking for 10 minutes about this.
The key to a successful migration
from Windows to the Mac is
really based upon these factors.
It's important that we get
buy-in and buy-in is not
just like a CEO or VP level,
it's everything all the way down
through IT and to the end users.
Any kind of strategy
cannot involve data loss.
You can't go in and say, well, okay,
you've got that system,
that's all well and good,
but you're going to have to lose
all that data or you're going to
archive it and we'll just start from
scratch on this new system over here.
And the whole plan basically
has to be adaptable,
scalable, realizing that no matter what
you think or where you think
you're going to be in a year,
the likelihood is that you're probably
going to be a lot further than that.
And then reliability.
There seems to be an overwhelming
assumption that Macs,
because they can do
things more efficiently,
that we don't need to do
it in the same kind of way.
So we're going to deploy
Active Directory and we're going to
have four domain controllers because we
need that redundancy and reliability.
But if we're going to move to the Mac,
we're going to do Open Directory and
we'll throw an old Power Mac G4 in
the corner and that can be our server.
It's really not the way to go.
Case study I want to use is the
Ontario Government Ombudsman.
What these guys are is the,
they're the guys you go to to
complain about the government.
So as you can imagine,
they're kind of busy.
They get a lot of emails and
a lot of phone calls and it's
basically everything from,
you know,
the city came out and dug up the
street and now got a pothole at
the end of my driveway up to,
you know, wrongful arrests.
They were a 100% Windows environment,
only 120 users,
and they had four full-time
IT staff to manage those 120 users.
And basically what happened is the
ombudsman himself came in and said,
"I'm a Mac user.
I have my nice MacBook Pro 17-inch,
and we are moving everything to the Mac.
I don't want to see another
Windows machine in this building
at the end of this project."
As you can imagine,
the IT staff were kind
of freaked out by this.
I mean, literally, I mean,
the guys were nervous and worried.
They're like,
I don't know anything about the Mac,
but we don't have a choice.
The guy said we've got to
move and it's got to work.
So what do they use?
Well, they had this custom
case management system.
That's basically where every phone
call and every email gets logged into.
So it gets used a lot.
It's kind of the most
important thing they have,
even above email.
They use Microsoft Office extensively.
They do have a lot of email.
It's not untypical to find
users there with excess of
50,000 messages and mailboxes
in excess of 10 or 15 gigabytes.
There's no quotas.
They were using Exchange Server,
but they had nothing in place to limit
users' access or use of Exchange Server.
And they weren't using roaming profiles.
So everyone was basically locked to
the machine they had on their desktop.
They couldn't get up and move anywhere
else or use a different machine.
The strategy we used around
migrating desktops was that,
first of all,
we need to get any user data that's
on the client machines up to a server.
We need to have this in a
central location so that
when we move these PCs off,
we're not gonna end up with lost data.
So that was a big job because
although users were told to
store stuff on the server,
there was no real way of
ensuring that they did.
The other thing that the company
did was put the new iMacs on the
desktop alongside the user's PCs way
before they could ever use them.
So they basically had this
Mac sat on the desktop off,
not doing a whole lot.
And that was a really good strategy.
I think they were just doing it to
save space because they didn't have
a whole lot of room in the IT area.
But the users began to say, like,
when do we get to turn these machines on?
And so it kind of was driving
enthusiasm and anticipation way
before things were ready to go.
And the other thing they realized
was that we can't do training
as a kind of one-time thing.
A lot of people,
when they're doing training,
they send all their users off for
a day or half a day or whatever.
And then that's really it done.
They realized that it would be a lot
more effective to do small training
sessions over a longer period of time
to allow things to sink in and the
users to begin to kind of come to
grips with everything and then ask
more questions at the next session.
Thank you.
and the other thing they did
was an on-floor walkabout.
So when they actually went live,
they had two of the trainers
basically on the floor at all times,
just walking around looking
for someone to have a problem.
And what that really helped with was
that no one ever had to get up the
phone and call IT or log something
into their help desk and say,
hey, this doesn't work.
There was someone basically with them
within 30 seconds because typically
the solution was maybe a 20 second,
oh, you just need to click here or
close this and open it this way.
And that really,
really helped the user's level
of satisfaction with the system
over the first two to three weeks.
So what they did was they picked
key groups of users based on either
the amount of usage or the level
of knowledge and understanding and
targeted key areas first they knew
would drive excitement and enthusiasm
throughout the rest of the organization.
and they locked everything down
way too much to start off with.
They knew they wanted to lock things
down and limit internet access,
locations people could run.
And so they really went overboard
from the start because it's a lot
easier to back off and give someone
way more freedom than it is to come
down the road three months and say,
okay, you can't do that anymore.
You're not doing that.
That's closed off and that's disappeared
from the dock because then people start
to get a little bit angry about that.
What we did was we took all of the
users out of Active Directory using
built-in tools from Windows Server to
just dump a list of the users and groups,
imported those users and
groups into Open Directory.
They hadn't been employing
any kind of password policy,
so every user had the same password
that they had five years ago.
So we figured it was probably about
time for a password change anyway.
And then they chose Curio
Mail Server as their new mail server.
One of the reasons they did that was the
built-in migration tool will suck all of
the emails and calendaring information
out of Exchange and put it into Curio.
So there was absolutely no data loss.
All their meetings and
appointments came through,
the global address list came through,
and all their lists came through.
They made the decision to move the case
management system off of SQL Server to
FileMaker Server and write a custom
front end based on a browser interface.
We suggested they might just want to
write a browser interface to SQL Server,
but they were like, nope,
we're not having any
windows in the building.
So they worked with a local FileMaker
developer to basically rewrite their
entire case management system for
FileMaker being cross-platform.
So if they ever need to go,
let's say the new ombudsman comes
in in five years' time and he says,
what's all this stuff?
We're kicking it out.
They can move FileMaker.
FileMaker across.
And they wanted that flexibility of
not being tied to a specific platform.
So they managed to get rid of
the access front end and replace
it with a browser-based access.
This is roughly what
it looked like before.
They had basically a mismatch of
servers from different vendors,
different tape drives and different
storage arrays that were individually
attached and everything was kind
of split out and there was no
real management to everything.
Some of the storage arrays
were completely full and
some of them were half empty.
and there were a mix of 70 to 50 on
the desktop and laptop side things.
That's what it looked like afterwards,
a little cleaner.
So they moved to basically four XSERVs,
one XSERV RAID that
stored all of their mail,
the case management system,
and network home directories.
They went to a tape backup using
Fiber Channel and LTO4 and went to
the 20 or 24-inch iMac and the 15,
17-inch MacBook Pros.
So as I said, they moved to a platform
independent case management system.
They moved to
Microsoft Office 2008 on the Mac.
They're using email way more
than they ever were before.
They're now doing way more
with mailing lists as well.
And they moved to
network home directories,
which means if a machine
suffers a hardware failure,
they just get up and move to
another machine or IT can just
drop a new machine on their desktop
and they just turn it on and go.
They imaged every machine in the
building in the space of one and a half
days and they now have much greater
flexibility than they ever had before.
Previously, if a Windows machine died,
they basically had to wait
for a new machine to be built
and put on their desktop.
Now they can just go to a spare
machine on the desk next to them
if the person's on vacation,
fire it up,
log in and they're good to go.
The whole thing was basically once
there was three to four months of
planning and anticipation about this
and once the decision was made it was
basically eight months start to finish.
It's handled by a local company
called Digital Transitions and one
consultant from that company handled
the entire project on himself,
on his own.
They've gone to one
full-time Mac sysadmin,
the other three are still there,
they're just employed
in different areas now.
And he was formerly the senior
Windows system administrator.
He went on the training courses,
he picked everything up.
And he's actually smiling now.
I didn't see him smile
a whole lot beforehand.
So that's really good stuff there.
And they're actually now even
looking at buying another XServe.
They're taking things and they
just wanna spread out again.
And this is way beyond the scope of what
they originally thought they wanna do.
They now start wanna looking at a
whole bunch of other technologies,
run their web services
off of the Mac as well.
So the strategy really was
around planning everything
out properly from the start,
making sure that communication was
with every level of the organization.
It's a tempting thing to just work
with IT and forget everyone else,
but they really wanted to keep
everyone in the loop and understand
what was going on with the project.
They had these great plans,
but we encouraged them to start small.
I figured you're moving to Leopard,
you need to be very concise
about what you want to do,
and you need to understand that
when you're on the leading edge and
going with brand new technology,
you need to make sure that all
of the other software vendors
that you're working with are
also going to be up to date.
So it's all well and
good going to Leopard,
but you need to make sure that
Kirio are going to have a version
of their mouse server that runs
on Leopard before you do that.
There's a lot of ownership,
so they invited all the key departments
in to understand that this is how
your new systems are going to work.
Let's get your input on
how it's going to work,
how we're going to develop this,
how do you need it to work for you,
rather than just IT making those
decisions and telling the end
users what it was going to be.
Train them before migrating so that
users can get to grips with a Mac before
they're having to use it on a day-to-day
basis and worry about their jobs.
They can have a lot more fun
on the training sessions.
And that's really the key thing
is to make sure that everyone is
enjoying it because if it's any
kind of a chore or hard work,
that project isn't going to work.
With that, I'm going to hand back
to Schoun to round up.
Thank you, Ian.
So the end result, don't fear the Macs.
Embrace their oneness.
Mac OS X, the simplicity,
the manageability,
and the customization really
allow full integration.
Strategic planning that's
based around the Mac's clear
advantages make first-time
integration and migration much,
much easier.
because the Macs are better.
I might be biased.
So here are the extra
sessions that I really,
really recommend that you attend.
The portable home
directories coming up very,
very soon.
You'll see the extending and directing
or publishing directory services as well.
So I would really recommend
that you hit some of these
sessions and some of these labs.